# CS-360_App_Portfolio

### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address? ###
This app was required to have a login screen that allowed multiple users to use different accounts and see events according to what access the user has. The goal of the app I developed was to allow the user to create, edit and manage events in their calendar to keep their schedule strait. This app was designed for users that have busy schedules that might make it hard to keep a schedule strait.

### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful? ###
This app featured screens were user friendly and simple to keep the user from jumping ship to another app. There is a simple login screen that allows the user to create a new account if they don't have an account and login if they do. From here they are sent to a simple calendar screen that displays their event information. One last screen that has needed was the new user registration that allows the user to create a new account. All these pages were kept simple to keep the user from being overwhelmed. <br/><br/>
Although my app is developed, there is a lot of further development that would allow for a more user-friendly experience. If I were to develop this app to launch on the app store, I would introduce a way that the user could see a more detailed list of their events for the day. I would also add menus for each screen that would go in the top right that allowed the user to learn more information about the screen they are on at the time. This would increase the positive user experiences and increase the chance of users getting and using the app.

### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future? ###
Coding this app proved a little more complex than I initially planned, but there are some development techniques that I can use in the future. Before I developed any code that allowed the app to function, I just created each activity (page) to make sure it was user friendly. From here I further broke the app down into each page and how to get to each page. Finally, from here I got into the nitty gritty of what each little detail of the app had to do to allow the app to function. <br/><br/>
This is all useful information, but if I were to use the development tools I learned here in the future, I wouldn't underestimate how much work it is to develop an app from start to finish. I would also do more testing and make sure that the app worked at certain intervals (more on this in the next section).

### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal? ###
I first tested my code by running it in the emulator to make sure that everything was working properly. However, this method went on to prove very inefficient and did not show enough information for me if something did go wrong. After realizing this, I started adding logger statements to help catch errors and show me where the error occurred to help fix bugs. I did not include enough of these, and I could have benefitted from having more of these placed throughout my code. In the future I will include more of these statements because it makes debugging a lot easier and speeds up the development process.

### Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge? ###
Not all the time, but in every part of this project there was opportunity to innovate and overcome a challenge. In the beginning we were given a list of constraints given by the client that we had to stick to and make sure that our plan for development matched what the client needed and what our employer wanted us to provide. Next, we had to make sure that once out idea was accepted that we could make a UI that was pleasing to the eye and one that a user wanted to use. Lastly, we had to develop the code and make sure that everything worked together to make sure that the app didn't have any bugs in the code. This meant including logger lines to make sure everything worked and figuring out why this button worked and this other one did not work.

### In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?###
I was not great at many specific tasks when creating this app, but I was incredibly pleased with my user interface. It was created in a way that the user could follow and use without being too confused by the process. I think I by far have more to improve than I do have experience with and as such I will be working on app that could be used to improve my knowledge, skills, and experience.
